# OOM Validation

Validation project for the object-ontological mapping (OOM) formalism defined in ML's PhD thesis.

The validation process consists of several phases.

1. Define an OWL 2 ontology and integrity constraints for it
2. Provide a manual mapping from OWL 2 to F-logic based on the OOM formalism
3. Provide a manual mapping from F-logic to Java based on the OOM formalism
4. Generate the mapping automatically using OWL2Java
5. Compare the resulting Java object models

Another task is to see how IC validation works. In this scenario, several ABoxes should be defined with sample data, some adhering
to the integrity constraints, some not. Next, IC validation queries would be executed on the OWL 2 and F-logic variants. For both variants,
the queries should give equivalent results.

## System Requirements

* JDK 8
* Apache Maven 3.3.1 or newer

## Project Structure

- `dl-ontology` contains two example OWL 2 ontologies
- `flogic-ontology` contains their F-logic counterparts, created based on the OOM formalism
- `src/main/java` contains Java code with the corresponding models, in two variants:
    - `generated` - model generated by OWL2Java
    - `manual` - model defined manually based on the OOM formalism
    
## Generating Models

Models are generated by OLW2Java using the Maven plugin provided for this purpose. There are two Maven profiles - `evaluation-01` and `evaluation-02` -
for the two example ontologies.

The models can be generated using:

`mvn cz.cvut.kbss.jopa:jopa-maven-plugin:owl2java-transform -P evaluation-01`

or

`mvn cz.cvut.kbss.jopa:jopa-maven-plugin:owl2java-transform -P evaluation-02`

## Running Example

To run the example application for the first evaluation (evaluation-01), use the following:

`mvn -P evaluation-01 exec:java`

